Jurnal Hukum
Volume 2 Nomor 2 (2024)
PERLINDUNGAN HUKUM BAGI PEMEGANG PERTAMA MEREK LOKAL JOLLIBEE
TERHADAP MEREK TERKENAL ASING
Cika Zulyani Karin 1
Simona Bustani 2
1, 2 Fakultas Hukum, Universitas Trisakti, Jakarta
Article Info Abstract
Corresponding Author:
Cika Zulyani Karin
cikakarin7@gmail.com
History:
Submitted: 27-12-2024.
Revised: 11-01-2025.
Accepted: 17-01-2025.
Keyword:
Trademark Law; Legal
Protection; Well - Known
Trademark.
Kata Kunci:
Hukum Merek; Perlindungan
Hukum; Merek Dikenal.
Brands are included in intellectual property rights where
the rights holder of the brand is given legal protection
for both local and foreign brands. The issues raised are
how was the protection of Jollibee brand holder in
Indonesia according to Law Number 20 of 2016
concerning Brands and Geographical Indications, and
how was the Commercial Court Judge's decision in
deciding the Jollibee brand dispute based on Law
Number 20 of 2016 concerning Brands and Geographical
Indications. This research is conducted b y normative
legal research with a descriptive nature, the data used is
secondary data obtained through literature studies, then
the data is analyzed by qualitative with drawing
conclusions deductively. The results of the study showed
that Legal Protection for the holder of the Jollibee Brand
Owned by Karsino is given due to Brand Certification he
has, however, for the first registered trademark can be
cancelled if it violates the provisions of Article 21
Paragraph (3). The judge's decision in case Number
9/ PDT.SUS - MEREK/2023/PN.NIAGA.JKT.PST that
rejected the application to cancel the Jollibee trademark
owned by Karsino is not in accordance with Article 21
paragraph (3) of the Trademarks and Geographical
Indications Law.
Abstrak
Merek termasuk dalam hak kekayaan intelektual yang
kepada pemegang hak atas merek diberikan
perlindungan hukum baik terhadap merek lokal ataupun
merek asing. Permasalahan yang diangkat adalah
bagaimanakah perlindungan pemegang merek Jollibee
di Indonesia menurut Undang-undang Nomor 20
Tahun 2016 tentang Merek dan Indikasi Geografis dan
bagaiamana kesesuaian putusan Hakim Pengadilan
Niaga dalam memutus sengketa merek Jollibee
berdasarkan Undang-undang Nomor 20 Tahun 2016
tentang Merek dan Indikasi Geografis. Penelitian ini
131